---
title: "Exploring the Power of Ppg Matrix for Atrial Fibrillation Detection with Integrated Explainability"
collection: publications
category: "Preprints"
permalink: /publication/2023-PPM
excerpt: 'Detecting Atrial Fibrillation over PPG Matrix Images with Explainable AI'
date: 2023-07-28
venue: 'preprint'
paperurl: 'https://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4514512'
citation: 'Caterina Fuster-Barceló, Alejandro Guerrero-López, Carmen Camara, and Pedro Peris-Lopez. "Exploring the Power of Ppg Matrix for Atrial Fibrillation Detection with Integrated Explainability." Preprint (2023)'
---
Exploring the Power of Ppg Matrix for Atrial Fibrillation Detection with Integrated Explainability

Atrial Fibrillation (AF) detection is paramount for cardiovascular health due to its potential complications. In this study, we investigate the utility of Photoplethysmogram (PPG) for continuous heart rate monitoring and de tection of patients with AF. Our approach centers on creating PhotoplethysmoMatrices (PPMs) and leverages Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) techniques to enable accurate AF patient classification with interpretability. We utilize the MIMIC PERform Dataset for our experiments. Our method involves transforming PPG data into multiple PPM images, which represent aligned peaks within the PPG signal, presented as heatmaps. The diagnostic architecture is a lightweight and efficient Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) combined with attention mechanisms for model transparency. Remarkably, our approach achieves a 100% classification accuracy across multiple experiments, even with variations in the number of users and training images. Furthermore, the attention module underscores the significance
of peak positioning and shifting in AF patient detection. Overall, our research makes a substantial contribution to the field of AF patient classification using PPG signals. The combination of image-based preprocessing techniques and explainable architectures enhances accuracy and interpretability, promising improved diagnostic capabilities in clinical settings.

You can check the preprint [here](https://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4514512).
