_publications/2023-ChatBot.md, before:

---
title: "BioImage.IO Chatbot: A Personalized Assistant for BioImage Analysis Augmented by Community Knowledge Base"
collection: publications
category: "Preprints"
permalink: /publication/2023-ChatBot
excerpt: 'BioImage.IO Chatbot: Transforming Bioimage Analysis'
date: 2023-12-31
venue: 'PrePrint, submitted to Nature Methods'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2310.18351'
citation: 'Wanlu Lei, Caterina Fuster-Barceló, Arrate Muñoz-Barrutia, Wei Ouyang. "BioImage.IO Chatbot: A Personalized Assistant for BioImage Analysis Augmented by Community Knowledge Base." Arxiv preprint. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2310.18351'
---
BioImage.IO Chatbot: A Personalized Assistant for BioImage Analysis Augmented by Community Knowledge Base

The rapidly expanding landscape of bioimage analysis tools presents a navigational challenge for both experts and newcomers. Traditional search methods often fall short in assisting users in this complex environment. To address this, we introduce the BioImage.IO Chatbot, an AI-driven conversational assistant tailored for the bioimage community. Built upon large language models, this chatbot provides personalized, context-aware answers by aggregating and interpreting information from diverse databases, tool-specific documentation, and structured data sources. Enhanced by a community-contributed knowledge base and fine-tuned retrieval methods, the BioImage.IO Chatbot offers not just a personalized interaction but also a knowledge-enriched, context-aware experience. It fundamentally transforms the way biologists, bioimage analysts, and developers navigate and utilize advanced bioimage analysis tools, setting a new standard for community-driven, accessible scientific research..

You can check the arxiv preprint [here](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2310.18351) and the one in zenodo [here](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.10032227).

Visit our GitHub repository for more info: [github.com/bioimage-io/bioimageio-chatbot](https://github.com/bioimage-io/bioimageio-chatbot)

Commit message:

update chatbot to peer-review journal

_publications/2023-ChatBot.md, after:

---
title: "BioImage.IO Chatbot: A Personalized Assistant for BioImage Analysis Augmented by Community Knowledge Base"
collection: publications
category: "Peer-review Journals"
permalink: /publication/2023-ChatBot
excerpt: 'BioImage.IO Chatbot: Transforming Bioimage Analysis'
date: 2023-12-31
venue: 'Nature Methods'
paperurl: 'https://rdcu.be/dQuw7'
citation: 'Lei, W., Fuster-Barceló, C., Reder, G. et al. BioImage.IO Chatbot: a community-driven AI assistant for integrative computational bioimaging. Nat Methods 21, 1368–1370 (2024). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-024-02370-y'
---
BioImage.IO Chatbot: A Personalized Assistant for BioImage Analysis Augmented by Community Knowledge Base

The rapidly expanding landscape of bioimage analysis tools presents a navigational challenge for both experts and newcomers. Traditional search methods often fall short in assisting users in this complex environment. To address this, we introduce the BioImage.IO Chatbot, an AI-driven conversational assistant tailored for the bioimage community. Built upon large language models, this chatbot provides personalized, context-aware answers by aggregating and interpreting information from diverse databases, tool-specific documentation, and structured data sources. Enhanced by a community-contributed knowledge base and fine-tuned retrieval methods, the BioImage.IO Chatbot offers not just a personalized interaction but also a knowledge-enriched, context-aware experience. It fundamentally transforms the way biologists, bioimage analysts, and developers navigate and utilize advanced bioimage analysis tools, setting a new standard for community-driven, accessible scientific research..

You can check the article in Nature Methods [here](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41592-024-02370-y), the arxiv preprint [here](
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2310.18351) and the one in zenodo [here](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.10032227).

Visit our GitHub repository for more info: [github.com/bioimage-io/bioimageio-chatbot](https://github.com/bioimage-io/bioimageio-chatbot)
